Say hello.
Hello.
And tell me who you are, please.
Okay, my name is Rita Smith.
Okay.
And your title?
Um, I am called an instructor librarian at the University of Florida, and I'm the project cataloger for the Baldwin Library.
Okay.
And we just add that today is December 14, 1990.
So, and...
Smith, how long have you been here at the university?
Let's start with some basic stuff.
OK, I've been with the Baldwin Library for about a year and a half.
I started in August of 89.
And before that, I had worked for a couple of years with the library, but not on a continuing basis.
How extensive are the special collections holdings here, would you say?
Well, I really can only speak for the Baldwin.
There are five sections of the special collections.
There's rare books and manuscripts.
There's university archives, the Library of Florida History, the Belknap Collection, which is a theater arts collection, and the Baldwin Library, which is children's literature.
The Baldwin Library, according to Bernie,
is really the great centerpiece collection.
Well, I think that's his vision of it, and I'm glad of it.
It hasn't really taken its place as sort of the star of the collection by any means.
It's probably the most unique in that there are more art items here that people cannot find in the Baldwin that people couldn't find in other children's collections.
So, you know, we see the possible constituency really an international one.
But it hasn't been used as much as the other special collections, and I can go into those problems at some point, too.
Well, why don't we... but you really haven't had the Bolo collection that long.
Well, we've had it since the late 70s.
Oh, really?
Do you want me to start at the beginning?
Yeah.
Okay.
I was just trying to get into this, and I would actually prefer that you did.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well... You can tell me a little bit about the lady and... All right.
The whole thing started in the early 50s when Dr. Baldwin got... Could you give me her full name, please?
Okay.
Her name is Ruth Marie.
Ruth Marie Baldwin.
And her father was a Shakespeare scholar at the University of Illinois.
And so she grew up in Champaign-Urbana.
two sisters, and her father, in his studies, made trips over to England every year, or very frequently.
And on one of these visits in 1953, for Christmas, I believe, Dr. and Mrs. Baldwin sent Ruth about, oh, maybe 20 children's books that they had found at book dealers in London.
And her father suggested that this would be a nice thing for a woman to collect.
Or even a girl.
Was she a girl at that time?
She would have been... I think she was born around 1917.
Okay.
Okay, so a woman.
Yeah.
Very patronizing attitude, right?
Right.
So she took him up on this, I guess, because from then on, that was the total focus of her life.
And she was a librarian.
She taught for many years in the School of Library Science at Louisiana State University.
She never married.
Of course, never had any children.
And this was really the total focus of her life.
And she was mainly interested in 19th century books.
That's what she was focusing on, 19th century children's books, British and American.
And from 1953 through the late 70s, maybe 1978, she had collected between 35,000 and 40,000 children's books, and she had them in her house at Baton Rouge.
That's about a 25-year period.
How she happened to bring them to Florida at that point was a university professor, Joy Anderson,
Joy.
Joy, J-O-Y.
She's an English professor who taught children's literature and writing of children's literature.
She was at LSU for some kind of symposium or something.
She met Dr. Baldwin.
Dr. Baldwin took her to her home.
And Joy saw this fabulous collection.
And that's when she decided that it would be good, when Joy decided, wouldn't this be a wonderful thing to have at the University of Florida?
Dr. Baldwin at that point hadn't, as far as I know, gone out of her way to search for a place to put the collection.
So Joy came back and talked to the director of the libraries and told them what a fabulous collection was squirreled away in a house in Baton Rouge.
Squirreled away in a house in Baton Rouge.
And, yeah, apparently they'd... What was she doing in Baton Rouge at this point?
She was a professor in the library school.
Where did she get her education, by the way?
Where did she get her PhD?
Probably Illinois.
Okay, so she is a Midwestern woman then himself.
Yeah, right.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think she spent some time in South Dakota immediately after library school, and also some time in California.
But she spent 20 years or so teaching at Louisiana State.
And her parents continued to live in Champaign, and they retired from University of Illinois and went to Carbondale, and that's where they've lived the last 10 years or so of their life.
So Joy went back, I think, to Baton Rouge with maybe the director of the library and some other interested persons, and they agreed that this would be a wonderful addition to the libraries.
And I'm not sure what details were worked out.
If you want documents and things, I suppose we could find them for you.
This doesn't necessarily have to be done today.
Right, yeah.
But what turned out is that she brought it to the University of Florida, and it was approximately 35,000 to 40,000 19th century children's books.
And this is about the late 50s?
1978.
I'm sorry.
78.
Yeah, she started in the early 50s.
She was a private collector, definitely, through the late 70s.
And then in 78 or 9, she brought the collection to the University of Florida.
So it was housed here at about that time.
It moved here to the University.
Right, from Baton Rouge.
Right.
Did she retain any kind of a control over it?
She was curator.
She was hired by the University of Florida to be the curator.
She was also offered staff and a certain location in the library, you know, for them to go.
And then over the next 10 years, 10 or 11 years, she added another 40,000 books.
Oh, God.
With her own funds?
No, this was with the library's funds.
Well, and her own.
I mean...
These buying trips that she went on, every vacation, every Saturday, she'd hit the garage sales.
Every weekend, she'd be down at book dealers in Ocala.
Did you know her?
Yeah, I worked with her for six months before she died.
We've got to talk about that, too.
Go ahead.
So then over the next 10 or 11 years, she added about the same number of books, and she expanded into the 20th century to 1950.
So when she died, just about a year ago, the collection,
was from approximately 1800 to 1950, that span of years, 80,000 children's books.
And her definition of a children's book was a book that was read by children.
So although most of them are, you know, like for 15, 16, 17 and under, there are some books that most people wouldn't consider juvenile books, but she included them and bought them because she figured children would have read them.
Also, she always wanted books that were read by children rather than books that had not been read by children.
That's why she didn't go after first editions.
She wasn't interested in the quote-unquote rare, valuable book.
To her, a valuable book was one that children had actually read.
So if she had a choice between two copies of a book, one was in pristine, clean condition, no corners damaged, the dust jacket on,
$500, and the other one had been thumb and red and had a child's name in the front.
That's the one she wanted to buy.
Did she explain her thinking of that?
Because as an artifact, you probably want the pristine copy.
Well, she wasn't interested in artifacts at all.
But there must have come a point where she's at a university, and she knows that she is building a library.
that ideally you should have the perfect copy.
Wouldn't you think so?
Well, that's another thing about her.
She never saw herself as building a library for anyone other than herself.
She still was the collector.
She's got every symptom that you can possibly name.
It's wonderful.
Did she articulate this?
No, she didn't really articulate it, but
Actions often speak louder than words.
And it was obvious to me that all of these books were hers yet.
This was her collection.
And she saw it as her collection and her books.
And she didn't see it as building a library for use by people or even scholars.
Right.
Do you think still in her mind she saw this as a library of books for children?
Not to be used by children.
Once they entered the collection, they were... Children were off limits.
Absolutely off limits.
Is that a rule, by the way?
Yeah.
I mean, my daughter, when I started working here, this is strictly a personal thing, but the first week I was hired, it was very quickly done, and I didn't have child care for my daughter, who's 10.
Very well behaved.
And so I had to bring her one afternoon.
She would not let her sit at a table inside the library.
She had to sit at a table outside in the reading room.
I mean, she wasn't going to touch the books.
She wasn't going to look at them or anything, but she couldn't even sit.
The child was ten at the time.
My daughters are nine and eight as we speak, so I'm just curious.
They revere books.
My children.
Oh, Rachel wouldn't have done a thing to them, but I knew enough after two days not even to suggest that she let Rachel even look at them.
Was it stated by the woman, or did you just do something that you just understood?
Well, yeah, I understood that.
I knew sort of what she was like before I started working here, and she was very protective.
gave the feeling that she really didn't want anybody to use these books.
And I don't know, you just knew that... I mean, I knew that Rachel could never go up and look at a book.
But the fact that she couldn't even sit in the library at a table was really amazing.
Is there a contradiction here, a paradox, in your mind?
Or is it just an irony that I see that...
She really coveted the books that were used by the kids once they entered the collection.
And yet, did she like kids, did you think?
No.
She didn't have any children.
Her two sisters never married.
They never had any children.
I think she was never ever around children.
She probably would have been extremely uncomfortable if she had been.
And it's really interesting, because one of her sisters went to England after the war and worked in orphanages.
She was this passionate collector of children's books.
And her third sister is a kindergarten teacher.
The other sister collected books, too, did you say?
No.
No, I'm sorry.
Ruth was the collector of children's books.
And the third one was a kindergarten teacher.
So they all had some connection to children, although Ruth was the most removed.
Well, the other two seemed to interact quite directly.
With the kids.
But Ruth was just adamant that it was a book, a collection of children's books, but not for children.
It's almost like a laboratory kind of thing.
But then, you know, a lot of, she discouraged use even by scholars.
And, you know, we, undergraduate classes, she didn't want undergraduates pawing through her books either.
So.
How did she talk about them?
How did she talk about her?
I mean, was there a parent passion for the books?
Well, she liked having them, but her love was getting them.
Okay.
The hunt.
The hunt and getting it.
She was on all these catalog books would come here, book dealer catalogs.
The morning they arrived, she would open them up and check to see what she had.
and what she didn't have and what she wanted.
She'd do that in the space of about two hours.
And late in the morning or early afternoon, she was on the phone to the book dealer telling him which books she wanted.
And a week later, they would arrive.
But her interest in them was done in a lot of ways.
She gave them to someone else, the cattle.
I could do their meat.
So staff handled it.
Yeah.
Didn't she go and handle it?
Didn't she want to go and feel it at least and see it?
Well, yeah, she liked unpacking them.
But her interest, you know, she was on to other things.
She was on to something new to buy.
I don't know how to define that or how to talk about it, really.
Because I don't want to sound like she didn't like them or that she didn't love having them.
But her interest dropped off.
Okay, there are two collections of Boston University.
Paul Richards, both given by Paul Richards, who's a very active guy in his late 40s, about 50, who's one of the two largest dealers of autographs in the United States.
And he's a collector.
But for him, once he gets a Robert Frost item or a Teddy Roosevelt, now he's building a book.
He totally loses his interest, and then he gives it to Boston University.
But it's the hunt.
It's precisely the syndrome that you're describing.
That's exactly it.
It's the excitement of finding it and getting it.
And it is not unique, trust me.
It is very symptomatic of certain species of bibliopaniacs.
Describe her for me physically.
What did she look like?
She was not particularly tall.
She was a little bit shorter than I am.
She was stout, but not overweight by any means.
She had short, grayish hair.
I don't know.
Her personality was extremely forceful.
And when you said she went on these trips, were they just like around here?
Did she go on really book scouting, elaborate book scouting trips?
Well, everywhere she went was a book scouting trip.
no matter what the other motive for going was, whether it was a vacation, she and her family had a cabin up by the Indian River in Michigan.
And they'd go up there every year.
And in every city, or in many cities along the way, they would stop and visit the bookstores in the cities and see what they could find.
And of course, when she went to England to visit her sister,
And she went around to a lot of the bookstores.
I would hear her on the phone calling some of her friends, you know, saying, why don't we go down and visit this bookstore in Ocala or Orlando and we can have lunch or something.
So it was just part of her.
I don't think she may have earlier.
See, I didn't know her until six months before she died.
Did you find all these?
No.
Oh, OK.
All right.
Okay, we'll put these right there on that.
So you knew her for the final six months of her life.
Did you find any apathy at that point?
Or do you think that she was probably as committed then as she had been, say, from the beginning of the collecting back in the 50s?
Well, I didn't find any apathy.
I mean, she would still get up morning, Saturday morning, and do the garage sale.
Monday morning she'd have a pile of books that she had purchased.
She was also still going around local places, Orlando, Ocala.
Gamble isn't big on bookstores, but she would still do that.
And, of course, she was real active searching the catalogs.
She'd come in every day.
She had technically retired in 1988.
This was August of 89 when they hired me.
She'd come in every day and search the catalogs.
She wouldn't let it go?
She couldn't let it go.
But while she was still alive, did you kind of have any freedom to try and get this collection into the world of scholarship?
No.
Her influence was still such that
We had to wait, which an institution can afford to do.
I mean, that's the way it goes.
That's the trade-off.
We get it.
You're not telling me anything I haven't.
I feel like a physician now who's taking a case history, because I've seen this kind of thing happen now.
85,000 or so books, yet apparently she knew everything that she had.
She did.
She knew an awful lot of what she had.
I mean, is there any duplication so far as you can see?
No.
So she could pick up a catalog and see an item, and she knew immediately whether or not she had it.
I think she never verbalized that to me, and she did spend some time.
She has a card catalog that she would check.
But I think she had a general idea, well, even more than that, of what she had and what she didn't have.
Did she ever articulate things that she really wanted?
Did she have a want list, a wish list?
She didn't like to operate from wantless.
That may be sort of just an impression I have rather than anything she specifically told me.
Or maybe I've read, I believe she had a policy statement that says that she doesn't operate from wantless.
I'm hoping that you can get a package of these things together for me, these things, these printed things that describe
I may have to wait until Bernie comes back.
Well, you did mention to me that you had a number of things that I could get.
I don't feel like on my own I can go and get all this stuff and fend it off.
But, you know, I can talk to him.
And if it's fine with him, I can do some... The story's going to need more than an interview, obviously.
It's going to need some stuff.
And you must have some articles that have been written about her.
Not many of them.
But if there are policy statements, well, that's where I come in.
90% of the people I'm writing about were relatively anonymous, outside of this fraternity and sorority type of a thing.
Where were we?
She didn't have a want list that you could... No.
I don't know.
I think once you get a look at the collection, you'll realize how
omnivorous she was.
I mean, we can get, now we get these catalogs from rare book dealers and we can go through them and she's got 70% of what they're offering, some of them.
Did she ever articulate the focus of the collection?
I mean, you said 18th and 19th and now some 20th century books for children.
Well, she was particularly proud of parallel editions in American and British editions of the same book.
But there was no subject focus.
There was no format focus.
Her focus was anything that was read by children in the 19th century was valuable to her.
It was worth having for the collection.
She's got chapbooks.
She's got religious literature.
She's got ABC books.
She's got toy and movable books.
She has etiquette books.
She has textbooks.
She has thousands of novels written after little women, family stories, tracks.
And for 25 years this stuff was crammed into her place in Baton Rouge.
Bernie said that she has a sister alive that you might
Give me her name, and maybe I could talk to her at some point.
Well, actually, she's got two.
The one's in England.
Her name is Elizabeth.
I don't know hardly anything about her.
The other sister lives in Chester, Illinois.
She's a kindergarten teacher, whom I've met several times.
What's the name of the other one?
Cynthia.
And she lives in Chester, Illinois?
Chester, Illinois.
Cynthia Baldwin.
Do you have any objection to my calling her, in fact, with my sister?
I don't know.
I don't know how she would react.
Well, there's only one way to find out, isn't there?
It could be negative.
That's fine.
I mean, it's not fine, but it's not... I'm a big boy.
I have people telling me they don't want to talk to me.
They say things that... But I think I owe it to the book to try.
Well, I'm sure she could give you...
Is she listed, you think, on the phone?
Oh, yeah.
I would imagine she is.
Cynthia Baldwin?
Cynthia Baldwin, yeah.
In Chester, Illinois?
Mm-hmm.
Down on the river.
See, I was out there in October.
Yeah.
Okay.
I don't know if we need this on tape.
If you really want me to go off, I will.
Okay, well, she was a very... She was stubborn.
for one thing.
She was pretty full of herself.
She was very important to herself, very important.
She was often uncooperative.
She was occasionally downright rude.
She was hard for many people to work with.
All of which made it difficult for people to use the collection.
They sort of had to get past her first, which was a very hard thing to do.
Maybe impossible to do.
Well, some professors have said that they tried to work everything out, and they thought they had agreements and stuff, and she would back out.
They wanted their students to use the collection.
They had all kinds of things written out, which she had asked them to do.
When it came down to it, she wouldn't let the kids in.
It's a delightful story.
I love it myself.
I love the story.
I'll tell you one story.
I wonder if there's anyone else here at the university who could talk about, you know... Bringing it?
Yeah.
Well, the director of the library at that time was Gus Harrer, H-A-R-R-E-R, and he still has an office over in Library West.
He's still here.
So you can talk to him.
Do you think he's here today?
He may be.
You can give him the call.
I'm here.
Yeah.
Tell him what you're doing.
This is serendipity, you know.
Yeah.
This book is very serendipity.
One thing leads to another, yeah.
But it's all over.
If you want to know some of the things, please.
Well, I'll give you another name.
Go ahead.
Justin Schiller, who's a book dealer near you, too.
I was going to ask if Justin had anything.
He evaluated her collection some years for tax purposes.
And then S-C-H-I-L-L-E-R.
Right.
So that's another name who could give you a lot of insight into her character, her book collecting habits.
I met him at one of the sales.
Another one who might help is Milton Reisman.
I think he's with the Victoria Bookshop.
Or is that Justin?
I'm not sure which it is.
It's either Reisman or Reisman.
It's R-E-I-S-S-M-A-N, probably.
And he's in New York as well.
I think his shop is Victoria.
Did she ever do anything with Rostenberg and Stern, I wonder?
That name isn't familiar to me.
Leona Rostenberg and Mettle and Stern.
They're both in their 80s.
They're wonderful.
I've interviewed them.
And they do a lot of children's book stuff.
I don't know.
Their names aren't familiar.
In fact, they've written several books.
They're wonderful.
And they don't describe any of this.
Actually, we've got the interview, I would say.
But very interesting to you.
OK, anything else, please?
I'll think of some stuff.
I'm really hopeful that if you have anything like policy stuff, you mentioned that you had a written policy.
Is that something I could get a copy of?
Yeah.
That's just a policy statement for when she got to the library, when she was using library funds, what it was that she was going to buy.
She must have seen this as a great opportunity to continue building the collection with somebody else's funds.
A lot of people would see this as, what an opportunity.
Because apparently she didn't have any great family fortune.
She didn't really
She basically built this with a very modest budget.
Is that correct?
Right.
Do you think she threw everything she had into this collection?
A lot of her money went into this because she wasn't extravagant at all, and she had no even nieces and nephews to spend money on.
But, you know, when she started buying, and even up through the mid-seventies, prices for children's books were rock bottom.
I mean, I see prices in these books of 50 cents.
She'd go into a bookstore
And, of course, the children's books were often in a big room at the back.
And she'd go in there and say, how much for this whole room of books?
And the guy would be thrilled.
You'd be thrilled.
And she'd get 2,000 books for $1,000.
Like that.
And how would she move them?
Boxes and a station wagon.
She'd do it herself?
What kind of car did she have?
Do you know offhand?
Buick.
A big Buick station wagon, I think.
Yeah.
And was it old by the time you met her?
No.
I think she traded up every so often.
Who could speak to the significance of the collection?
Can you give me... Well, I think Bernie can to a certain extent.
You mean a dollar value?
No, no, no.
A dollar doesn't interest me at all.
The significance.
Well, I've heard it said that it's the best
collection of children's books, of British and American children's books, in one spot, bar none.
That there are some libraries that are stronger in early American children's books, like the American Aquarian Society, or the Library of Congress is stronger in certain American children's books.
The Bodleian is better in British children's books.
Or some might have better illustrated books.
The Osborne Collection in Toronto for the very, very early ones, I guess, pre-Victorian ones.
The Morgan has, well, they've got this exhibit on now, which I saw last week.
But yours, I guess, for everything else at one spot, is probably preeminent.
And yet you're just now probably coming to realize what you have and how you can really use it and how you can use it to serve scholarship.
because you really haven't been able to do that.
That's right.
You know, what my job is is to catalog.
They've hired me to catalog the collection, because she had a catalog, but not according to quote-unquote standards.
And in 1981, there was a book published of her catalog, but all the books purchased since 1981, the only record of them is downstairs in her card catalog.
So what I'm doing is recataloging them according to national standards, assigning subject headings to them for access points, and putting them in the national database.
So hopefully the use of it is going to start to increase.
And also, we're saying now, this is a library.
It's not a collection anymore.
And we want it to be used, and we're willing to work with you to see what your needs are and how it can be used.
It takes time, you know.
Yeah, it'll take time.
Everybody has to go through this, you know.
I interviewed William Scheide.
Have you ever heard of him from Princeton University?
His library is there.
You don't need this on tape.
You know, you've had to wait to get this, to have this collection become a library.
That's a very interesting way to put that.
But would you say it's been worth the wait?
Definitely, yeah.
And now, is your background in children's literature?
Well, my background is some children's literature.
I have a master's in library science, and I've got my bachelor's in English.
And I'm looking.
Are you Floridian?
No, I'm Michigan, personally.
I graduated from Ann Arbor.
Really?
Well, I'm going out there next month to the Clements Library.
Yeah, when you mentioned that.
Have you ever heard of Toby Holtzman in Grosse Pointe?
I'm glad this guy's unbelievable.
That was a long time ago when I graduated.
Okay, go ahead.
I'm sorry.
But I'm thinking of doing some more work, master's work in the children's.
I don't know.
I'd like a real cultural interdisciplinary approach because this collection's strengths aren't literary.
They're cultural and social.
A lot of what she collected is everyone has forgotten the author and the title, but a lot of the values
that society held dear to their heart are hidden in that fiction.
And it's going to be the anthropologists and the sociologists, and I think a very interdisciplinary group of scholars is going to be interested in using this, including illustrators and artists, people who are interested in book bindings.
I mean, there's just really a fantastic array of
of publishing processes, printing processes and things like that, as well as literary.
Do you think she was mindful?
Was she a scholar when it came to these things?
I would say not.
She was collecting.
Right.
She must have had some idea of what she was assembling.
She did, yeah.
And is leaving it to the next generation of it to figure out what it is.
Yeah.
Did she ever articulate the way you just did what she had?
Or is this your read on it?
This is pretty much my read on it.
Yeah.
That's pretty interesting.
Well, what's interesting to me is the cataloger, because I've got to figure out... When I look at a book and try to figure out who in the world is ever going to want to read this book and why, in other words, how would this book be useful to some scholar?
It's definitely not literary style, it's not the author, and it's not the title, which are sort of the traditional ways that literary people make uses of books.
But it's the way this book of fiction shows...
the attitudes towards young girls or what they were expected to do or relationships between daughters and fathers or, you know, so it's those kinds of more social and cultural things, I think, that are really very fascinating.
And, of course, the religious.
She has a lot of religious chapbooks and tract societies.
Did she ever talk about her father?
Yes.
I mean, Brittany had mentioned to me
It was almost Freudian, I mean, that he was this collector of Shakespeareana, and who apparently considered himself, apparently, you know, superior, right?
Yeah, I would say that's the impression I got.
And that maybe what she was doing was, all right, I'll show you.
And Bernie said, and I'm quoting him now, and this is why I'm using his name, because he said it before, that the irony is his collection is in all likelihood dispersed,
because he really didn't have any primary things, and yet the daughter's collection is the one which is now enshrined, so to speak, in a major repository and will bear her name, you know, indefinitely, along those in the libraries.
A kind of ironic twist, isn't it?
Well, you know, his little comment, too, that this would be a good thing for a woman to collect.
Well, my cookbooks, you know, my cookery books.
Elizabeth Pennell collected cookery books.
Except that she carried it one step further.
Her collection was destroyed by water.
Joseph Pinnell's wife, the illustrator, had a magnificent collection of cookbooks.
But that's the kind of thing, oh, you can collect sewing books or gardening books or something like that.
And she probably said, I'll show you.
Who knows?
But did she ever say anything like that, I guess is what I'm driving at.
I don't remember her saying anything like that regarding the collection itself.
But the achievement, what she was doing.
Yeah.
What drove her?
I want to know what drove her.
Well, you know, now that I think about it, it could be a competitiveness with her father.
I mean, there's a lot here that makes it more than circumstantial.
I mean, the sisters, what they did with their lives.
I mean, you don't have to have a PhD from Harvard Medical School to see interesting little things here, you know?
Yeah.
Well, she did tell me once that her father managed to run off any man that was brave enough to darken their front doorway.
Did she say that with a smile or with anger, I wonder?
Well, I don't think she was angry anymore.
Because she was 72 at this point.
Right.
I think she revered her father, but she was also, I sense, sort of bitter.
I'm wondering if there's kind of an Emily Dickinson kind of a thing here, or the Austin sisters, you know?
I don't know.
Now, this other sister is really a cousin who was adopted.
The one out in?
Illinois.
She's a sister.
Yeah, essentially she's a sister.
She was brought up in the same home.
It'll be interesting to talk to her.
Oh, I will.
You can count on that.
Where else can you tell me, do you think?
Well, I think... Now, this fellow Gus, would I just walk over there?
I would call.
We can use my phone and see if he's in.
Do we take regular lunch hours here?
Well, he may be in or he may be out.
I don't know how much, really, he's around.
She could even talk to him by phone.
Yeah, he maybe could call in.
If you could just give me his number.
While you're doing that, are there any unique items here, so far as you know?
I don't know of any.
I have, well, I don't know that there are any that are unique and highly valuable.
I'm sure there are many that are unique.
And by that, I mean one of a kind, no other known or recorded kind.
Oh, I would guess we've got a lot of those.
But a lot of them would be those late 19th century novels that no one cared about collecting.
And maybe nobody still cares about collecting.
But they belong in a collection someplace.
Now, as far as really valuable, rare things,
I don't know.
So that's mainly because I don't know enough about rare books.
And who here, in addition to Mr. Haller?
Is it Mr. Haller or Dr. Haller?
H-A-R-R-E.
H-A-R-R.
Maybe I can call him.
Yeah.
It shouldn't take more than half an hour to show me around, should it, the stuff downstairs?
No, I can show you.
Not much time.
Harry's books from the 20th century.
The Bobsy twins.
Bobbsy is B-O-B-B-S-E-Y, right?
I think so.
We can look out there.
Bob Dexter and the clubhouse mystery.
The boy ranchers among the Indians.
The boy ranchers in the camp, et cetera, et cetera.
These are a lot of boys and girls series, Hardy Boys, Cherry Amens, all kinds of things like that.
They're pretty nice additions, aren't they?
Pretty nice copies.
Yeah.
Let me just take a shot here, if it's all right with you.
This is a family library put out by Harper and Brothers.
Those are mainly bound tracks.
Look at them.
I wonder if she cut those as collections or just... Have you put these together or did she put these together?
She had these together here like this.
Okay, let's move on.
Did the university build this room for her?
No, it was here.
In fact, she had been promised another place.
This is not an ideal location, although the setting is very nice, but there's too much light and temperature fluctuation.
There is indeed.
Yeah.
All around up here are 19th century books, hardback books.
I'm just writing right away.
It's fine.
And...
The books in the boxes over there is her Welch collection, which are books from the bibliography of D.A.
Welch, who wrote the definitive book on pre-1820's children's books.
And she has a really nice collection of them.
And these are all books, hardback books under five inches.
Oh.
Look at that.
It's full of them, full of these tiny bits.
This looks like a card catalog.
It is, yeah.
But it's actually books.
Right.
Isn't that spectacular?
Oh, I've got to get another picture of that.
That's the Lilliput Library.
Wait, let me get the keys out.
You know what they call it?
Lilliput Library.
I really get a kick on these things.
Oh, wait, let me show you the Welsh collection first.
These are for pre-1820 American interest.
Any time anyone refers to the Welch collection, people know what those are.
You've got to do something about the sunlight here, though.
Right.
You know that.
Yeah.
See, these are all books from 1820 and before.
It's unbelievable.
So we've got 12 boxes below.
I would just want to write down a few scattered titles, but you probably must have something on that to indicate.
Some of the titles.
On what?
On anything.
Titles from the collection.
Oh, yeah, we can get that.
Get me, yeah, yeah.
We don't have to take notes on that now.
Okay, yeah.
Just for detail purposes, you know.
Well, she has some authors that are really fairly rare, too.
She has a lot of Jacob Abbott.
There's a lot of Molesworth as a writer in the early part of the 1800s.
In fact, when we're done, if it's hard with you, maybe I can just walk through and take some notes.
Can I do that?
Yeah.
No?
Yes.
That's fine.
As soon as I finish shooting these pictures.
Okay, these are really the oldest books.
Okay.
These are supposedly, most of these are before 1820.
This is a beautiful room.
These are various editions of Pilgrim's Progress.
Yeah.
Those are various editions of Aesop's Fables.
And these are all different editions of drones from Crusoe.
Whose desk is this?
That's Bernie's.
That's from Bernie's.
He's quite a catch for you, I have to say, coming in from... Yeah, we're real happy with him.
Yeah.
That's our good picture.
It's asking to take pictures of them all along, so why not, right?
Now, she not only collected hardback, but also paperbacks.
These drawers are full of paperback books from the 1800s.
Many of those will be unique, by the way.
Oh, I would think so.
I can't imagine that anywhere else would have to be.
These will be your unique items.
Yeah, that's what I meant when I said we don't have unique and rare things.
These are all full of that.
You just don't know yet, and that's what the scholar's job is to determine.
This is her partial collection of cat books.
Oh.
And Tom's on Bible.
Yeah.
Now, I don't know about a picture of this.
Why?
You don't think this would give ideas to anybody like Stephen, do you?
Only if we can get in here.
Stephen's in jail.
I'm not...
This is, for me, as much as anything.
You know, I have to give a floor plan.
You know what I'm saying?
I need to give five of collectors who have these anxieties back on.
Okay, these are more paperbacks from the 19th century.
She has this whole metal cabinet.
The chapbooks, I gather, are really valuable.
Shall we say rare?
Just use the word.
Rare, sphere.
I would guess, yeah.
Because that concerned you more than any of the others for some reason.
Well, I can't really make those judgments.
I don't know.
But I don't really know what's most valuable.
That's irrelevant to me.
It's the totality of the collection.
I'm going to get a picture of this.
This will shoot very well.
Take it back a little bit.
It's very interesting.
Get the light out before we go.
OK, I've shot about as much as I'm going to.
What I'd like to do, if possible, is just spend 10 or 15 minutes.
So you think she has another room with collections of what?
She has a collection of golden books, probably 500 of them in the 40s, 50s, 60s, and 70s, which no library kept or collected.
And certainly parents threw them out at the first opportunity.
So I have a feeling that's unique, really.
and nobody collected them.
As far as I know... Maybe we can look at them.
You said she guided the door, huh?
You know, she didn't spend a lot of time looking at that.
She had a door that had an alarm on it that every time it opened it emitted this high-pitched scream.
And it pretty much stayed on there.
There was no other access to it.
Was there anybody else in here?
Well, yeah, she's had an assistant.
She has someone for five years before me, and then I went here.
Is the assistant still around?
Yeah, actually, she is.
I don't know her very well.
She's retired.
Her name is Catherine Dunlap, and I don't know really anything more about her.
Can I just leave this here, please?
This camera?
I'll leave it with Melissa.
Okay.
She may not be around.
That's all right.
We'll carry it.
It's just that I'm...
I also knew her fairly well and dealt with her really much longer than I have or Bernie has.
And who is he?
He's the assistant director of libraries for special collections.
I'll talk to him.
Yeah, he's just under the director as far as levels go.
Okay.
And who's the director?
Dale Kanellis.
It's a woman.
C-K?
C-A-N-E-L-A-F.
That's a Greek name.
I'm Greek.
I know Greek names when I hear them.
These are 20th century books.
This is rather extensive, no question about it.
Oh, it is.
I mean, it's enormous.
These are encyclopedias and things.
These are landmark books.
Did you read landmark books when you were a kid?
Mm-hmm.
All that kind of stuff.
This is an archives.
Here's a collection of golden books.
Oh, look at that.
Yeah, I've got to get a picture of that.
Let me just put that.
Good.
You can keep talking.
You can hold this if you'd like.
All right.
Put that up there.
That's great.
Could you maybe just take one out?
I'm going to try.
When you talk about unique things in the library, this is probably one of the most unique things we have.
The Golden Books.
And again, value-wise, individually, it's going to be like an old Life magazine, probably.
Taken as a collection, you have what is a unique archive.
What were the years on Golden Books?
Maybe I could get that from Random House, I guess.
Yeah, you could.
Why don't we just pull one out at random?
Yeah, I don't know if they were out in the 30s or not.
Five Little Firemen.
This is 48.
I would think... What does it say on the title page?
Yeah, the copyright page.
Let's just see what it says on the copyright page.
It's called A Little Golden Look.
Simon Schuster.
It's that random house.
Looks like a couple others.
Maybe Random House has a later one.
A Little Golden Book.
Oh, no, these, let's see.
Oh, yeah, Western Publishing Company.
Little Golden Book, okay.
Western.
Yeah, somewhere in Wisconsin, Racine, Wisconsin.
Now, it seems to me that it's part of a... Oh, I'll find out.
Okay, yeah.
I don't think it's Random House.
Okay, it could be.
That's very easily...
How many would you say there are?
Well, I've 506 in my mind for some reason, but I'm not sure.
We could do a quick count here.
Look at how many there are on each shelf and multiply.
Yeah, this is Simon & Schuster.
It must have been... This is 46.
That's no sweat.
I can figure this out.
How many rooms altogether?
How's her books?
Okay.
One, two, three, four.
Four plus that balcony area.
Which is very... What was that prior to becoming her... that room?
Was that just... Well, it was the rare books room for a while.
And longer ago was an area where students could browse books and read.
And her office was where?
Right around where Melissa's is?
Yeah, where Melissa was sitting.
That was her office.
So she basically did guide the door.
Right.
That's great.
Question, are you still adding to the collection?
Yes, we're still purchasing.
We're not sure what direction.
At this point, it's more of the same.
But we may do more collecting in or purchasing in more recent books.
We may try to increase our holdings from 1950 on because we really are very poor in 1950 on.
You see, this is an opportunity for the university now using this as a beginning to really secure dominance in a
Okay, I've seen it.
You said she collected a lot of other things?
A lot of other things.
Rocks, shells, postcards, stamps, and figurines of children reading, which I can show you.
I'd love to see some of them.
What happened to all those things?
Well, I think she was in the process of disposing of rocks, shells, stamps, and her sister may be able to tell you what happened to more of them.
The figurines are still here.
I'd like to see some of them.
One of the wonderful things about cataloging this collection is I get to read all the inscriptions in all the books, and because she picked books that children read there, almost every book has something written in it.
For example, here it says, We all think this book exceedingly good, the true story of a child's life, telling, or rather expressing, good thoughts which show the writer must know something about a child's heart.
And who wrote that, I wonder?
Yours truly.
The book or this little thing?
That little thing.
Well, it's fine.
Miss S.P.
Sang, it looks like.
So it's probably her book.
And notice it's got a cracked spine.
Right.
Looks like it had been read.
Warren, Doris.
This was to Doris Knox from Mama in the summer, 1896.
That's wonderful.
Get that down, Annette.
Stuck it.
Stories children love.
Yeah, that's...
You see, that's wonderful.
That is.
Yeah.
I mean, I've handled it.
What a wonderful book just pulled out.
Yeah, just like that.
Yeah.
Did you expect that just now?
Well, many books have little unexpected changes like this.
Do you remember many of them, or are they just kind of pleasing as you go along?
Warming, I guess.
Yeah, that's what it is.
It makes you realize that little tiny human hands actually probably actually read this book or opened it under a tree.
Let's find another one.
Can you think of another one?
Um, well, I don't know.
We can pick a couple.
You've got me on a tangent here, which I like.
Let's see what the golden secret has.
Well, this is an award book.
This is another thing that they were often done, is they were given to students for being first in math or first in geography.
I even found one that was awarded to a student for being first in knitting.
This is July 25, 1874, the Windsor Lodge Award.
the winter lodge academy portobello first prize awarded to miss joan b jane miss jane b-r-i-t-c-h-i-e-s for music junior class second division john ruskin's stuff here exactly young kids
They almost all have at least an inscription.
Yeah.
Raymond Robbins, R-O-B-I-N-S, from Miss Garside, G-A-R-S-I-D-E, Christmas 1880.
So that must be from a teacher?
Yeah, you'd think so.
That's what it sounds like, yeah.
Santa Claus, his friend St.
Nicholas.
This is pretty nice.
I'm going to write that down.
I found one series of books by a male author.
And the inscription each year had been from an aunt and uncle to this boy.
And every Christmas, apparently, they had gotten him one of this author's books.
That was their Christmas gift.
Do you remember the author?
It might have been Castleman.
How do you spell it?
C-A-S-T-L-E-M-O-N.
Okay.